.\" Manpage for mpsh builtins.
.TH MPSHBUILTINS 1 "General Command Manual"
.SH NAME
mpshbuiltins \- description of all mpsh's builtins
.SH DESCRIPTION
mpsh is the best shell (at the very least for those I know) ever created. He provides a list of builtin \- commands executed directly in the shell \- to improve the user experience. All builtins are described below.
.SH BUILTINS
.BI cd
[
.I
target
]

.RS
The
.I cd
utility shall change the working directory of the current shell execution environment
.RE

.BI echo
[
.I args...
]

.RS
Displays the parameters to stdout.
.RE

.BI alias
[
.I var[=name]...
]

.RS
.B -
If no arguments are given prints all aliases
.RE
.RS
.B -
If only
.I var
is given, prints the associated alias
.RE
.RS
.B -
If an argument of type
.I var=name
is given, associates
.I var
to alias
.I name
.RE

.B exit
[
.I n
]

.RS
.B -
If
.I n
is given, exists with n return code
.RE
.RS
.B -
If
.I $?
is a valid unsigned char, exists with $? return code
.B -
Else exits with 0.
.RE

.B export
[
.I var[=name]...
]

.RS
The shell shall give the export attribute to the variables corresponding to the specified names, which shall cause them to be in the environment of subsequently executed commands. If the name of a variable is followed by
.IR =word
, then the value of that variable shall be set to word.
.RE

.B unalias
[
.I name
]

.RS
Removes the alias for the given
.I name
.RE

.B type
.I name
[
.I name...
]

.RS
Indicates how each argument would be interpreted by the shell
.RE

.B umask
[
.I n
]

.RS
Changes the umask value.
.I n
must be a number written in octal
.RE

.B history
[
.I n
]

.RS
.B -
If no argument is specified, print all commands stored in the history
.RE
.RS
.B -
If
.I n
is a positif integer, executes the
.I n-ith
command of the history
.RE
.RS
.B -
If
.I n
is a negative integer only remembers the last
.I -n-th
commands
.RE

.B which
.I name
[
.I name...
]

.RS
Prints the full path of executable or how they would have been interpreted by the shell otherwise.
.B mpsh
use the environnement variable
.B CHEMIN
instead of
.BR PATH.
This is the reason
.B which
is a builtin
.RE

.B complete
[
.I name|name ext...
]

.RS
.B -
If no argument is given, print all defined completions
.RE
.RS
.B -
If only a
.I name
is given, removes all completion associated with the given
.I name
.RE
.RS
.B -
If a
.I name
is given and a list of extentions
.IR ext,
adds extensions to the list of extensions for the given name. If a such list is
.BR unempty,
the completion will suggests only files of specified extentions for the given
.I name
.RE

.B source
.I script

.RS
Executes the script without fork-ing, allowing it to create and keep vars / alias / completions into mpsh for further uses.
.RE
.RS
.RE

.SH AUTHORS
Maxime FLIN and Pierre Gimalac
